

Congressional Directory for the 115th Congress (2017-2018), October 2018 Revision - 


Congressional Directory for the 115th Congress (2017-2018), October 2018 Revision
[Pages 898-900]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office, www.gpo.gov]


                     UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
                            FOR VETERANS CLAIMS

     625 Indiana Avenue, NW., Suite 900, 20004, phone (202) 501-5970

    ROBERT N. DAVIS, chief judge; born in Kewanee, IL, September 20, 
1953; graduated from Davenport Central High School, Davenport, IA, 1971; 
B.A., University of Hartford, 1975; J.D., Georgetown University Law 
Center, 1978; admitted to the bars of the U.S. Supreme Court, the Ninth 
Circuit Court of Appeals; the State of Virginia; and the State of Iowa; 
career record 1978-83 appellate attorney with the Commodity Futures 
Trading Commission; 1983-88 attorney with the United States Department 
of Education, Business and Administrative Law Division of the Office of 
General Counsel; 1983 Governmental exchange program with the United 
States Attorneys office, District of Columbia; Special Assistant United 
States Attorney; 1988-2001 Professor of Law, University of Mississippi 
School of Law; 2001-05 Professor of Law, Stetson University College of 
Law; Published extensively in the areas of constitutional law, 
administrative law, national security law, and sports law. Founder and 
Faculty Editor-in-Chief, Journal of National Security Law, arbitrator / 
mediator with the American Arbitration Association and the United States 
Postal Service. Gubernatorial appointment to the National Conference of 
Commissioners on Uniform State Laws 1993-2000. Joined the United States 
Navy Reserve Intelligence Program in 1988. Presidential recall to active 
duty in 1999, Bosnia and 2001 for the Global War on Terrorism. Military 
decorations include Joint Service Commendation Medal, Joint Service 
Achievement Medal, Navy Achievement Medal, NATO Medal, Armed Forces 
Expeditionary Medal, Armed Forces Reserve Medal with ``M'' device, 
Overseas Service Ribbon, National Defense Ribbon, Joint Meritorious Unit 
Award, and Global War on Terrorism Medal. Nominated for appointment by 
President George W. Bush on March 23, 2003; confirmed by the United 
States Senate on November 21, 2004; commissioned on December 4, 2004 as 
a Judge, United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims. He became 
the Chief Judge on October 9, 2016.

    MARY J. SCHOELEN, judge; born in Rota, Spain; B.A., political 
science, University of California at Irvine, 1990; J.D., George 
Washington University Law School, 1993; admitted to the State Bar of 
California; law clerk for the National Veterans Legal Services Project, 
1992-93; legal intern to the U.S. Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, 
1994; staff attorney for Vietnam Veterans of America's Veterans Benefits 
Program, 1994-97; Minority Counsel, U.S. Senate Committee on Veterans' 
Affairs, 1997-2001; Minority General Counsel, March 2001-June 2001; 
Deputy Staff Director, Benefits Programs / General Counsel, June 2001-
03; Minority Deputy Staff Director, Benefits Programs / General Counsel, 
2003-04; nominated by President George W. Bush; appointed a Judge of the 
United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims; confirmed by the 
U.S. Senate to the United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims on 
November 20, 2004; sworn in December 20, 2004.

    CORAL WONG-PIETSCH, judge; born in Waterloo, IA, Judge Pietsch has a 
distinguished career in public service, both in the military and as a 
civilian. She was commissioned in the U.S. Army Judge Advocate General's 
Corps and served six years on active duty. Judge Pietsch continued her 
service in the U.S. Army Reserve and rose to the rank of Brigadier 
General. She became the first woman to be promoted to the rank of 
Brigadier General in the U.S. Army Judge Advocate General's Corps and 
the first woman of Asian ancestry to be promoted to Brigadier General in 
the Army. Until her appointment to the bench, Judge Pietsch held the 
position of Senior Attorney and Special Assistant at Headquarters, U.S. 
Army Pacific located in Honolulu, Hawaii. In this position, she provided 
and managed legal services in support of the U.S. Army Pacific's mission 
to train Army Forces for military operations and peacetime engagements 
aimed at promoting regional stability. As part of the 2007 ``surge'' in 
Iraq, Judge Pietsch volunteered as a Department of Defense civilian to 
deploy to Iraq for a year, where she was seconded to the U.S. Department 
of State to serve as the Deputy Rule of Law Coordinator for the Baghdad 
Provincial Reconstruction Team. During her deployment to Iraq, Judge 
Pietsch assisted with numerous civil society projects involving a 
variety of Rule of Law partners, including the Iraqi Jurist Union, Iraqi 
Bar Association, law schools, and international rights, women's rights, 
and human rights

[[Page 899]]

organizations. She evaluated and sought funding for numerous projects 
aimed at building capacity within the Iraqi legal community to include 
the establishment, in close collaboration with the Iraqi Bar 
Association, of a Legal Aid Clinic at one of Iraq's largest detention 
facilities. In 2006 Judge Pietsch was appointed by the Governor of 
Hawaii to the Hawaii Civil Rights Commission where she served for seven 
years. Shortly after the appointment, the Governor selected Judge 
Pietsch as its Chair. Earlier in her civilian legal career, Judge 
Pietsch had been appointed a Deputy Attorney General for the State of 
Hawaii, advising the State Department of Health, State Department of 
Agriculture, and the State Criminal History Records Division. Judge 
Pietsch's academic degrees include a bachelor of arts, master of arts, 
and a juris doctor degree. She was also a Senior Executive Fellow at the 
Harvard University Kennedy School of Government, is a graduate of the 
Defense Leadership and Management Program, and a graduate of the Army 
War College. Her awards and decorations include the Distinguished 
Service Medal, Legion of Merit, Meritorious Service Medal, Joint Service 
Commendation Medal, Decoration for Exceptional Civilian Service, the 
Meritorious Civilian Service Medal, Superior Civilian Performance Medal, 
and the Global War on Terrorism Medal. She has been the recipient of the 
Organization of Chinese Americans Pioneer Award, the Hawaii Women 
Lawyers Attorney of the Year Award, the Honolulu YWCA Achievement in 
Leadership Award, the Catholic University Alumni Achievement Award, the 
Federal Executive Board Award for Excellence, the U.S. Army Pacific 
Community Service Award and recognized for lifetime accomplishments by 
the Women Veterans Igniting the Spirit of Entrepreneurship. Judge 
Pietsch is admitted to the bars of the United States Supreme Court, the 
Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, U.S. District Court of the District of 
Hawaii, State Bar of Hawaii, State Bar of Iowa, and the United States 
Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces; nominated by President Barack 
Obama and subsequently appointed a Judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals 
for Veterans Claims on May 24, 2012 and sworn in June 2012.

    MARGARET BARTLEY, judge; born in Pittsburgh, PA, 1959; B.S., cum 
laude, Pennsylvania State University, 1981; J.D., cum laude, American 
University Washington College of Law, 1993; admitted to the bars of the 
State of Maryland and the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal 
Circuit; law clerk to now-retired Judge Jonathan R. Steinberg of the 
United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims, 1993-94; staff 
attorney for National Veterans Legal Services Program, 1994-2005; senior 
staff attorney for National Veterans Legal Services Program, 2005-12; 
editor of the NVLSP veterans' law quarterly, The Veterans Advocate, 
2004-12; Director of Outreach and Education for the Veterans Consortium 
Pro Bono Program, 2005-12; nominated as a Judge of the United States 
Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims on June 21, 2011, by President 
Barack Obama; confirmed by the U.S. Senate May 21, 2012 and sworn in 
June 28, 2012.

    WILLIAM S. GREENBERG, judge; Judge Greenberg was a partner of 
McCarter and English, LLP. He initially joined the firm as an associate 
following a judicial clerkship in 1968, then returned as a partner in 
1993. The majority of his career has involved litigation in Federal and 
state courts. Judge Greenberg had been a Certified Civil Trial Attorney 
by the Supreme Court of New Jersey since 1983. He served as Chairman of 
the Judicial and Prosecutorial Appointments Committee of the New Jersey 
State Bar Association, which considers all candidates to be a judge or 
prosecutor submitted by the Governor of New Jersey. He was President of 
the Association of Trial Lawyers of America, New Jersey, (The New Jersey 
Association for Justice) and has served as Trustee of the New Jersey 
State Bar Association and of the New Jersey State Bar Foundation. He 
also served as a member of the New Jersey Supreme Court Committee on the 
Admission of Foreign Attorneys. He established and chaired the New 
Jersey State Bar Association (public service / pro bono) program of 
military legal assistance for members of the Reserve Components called 
to active duty after September 11, 2001. He was a member of the New 
Jersey Supreme Court Civil Practice Committee. With the approval of the 
Secretary of Defense, on the recommendation of the White House, Judge 
Greenberg became Chairman of the Reserve Forces Policy Board in 2009, a 
Board established by the Secretary of Defense in 1951 and by Act of 
Congress in 1952. On July 26, 2011, Judge Greenberg was awarded the 
Secretary of Defense Medal for Outstanding Public Service, the second 
highest civilian award in the Defense Department, at a public ceremony 
in the Pentagon, and completed his term in August 2011. In 2006 his 
Civil Trial Handbook, Volume 47 of the New Jersey Practice Series, was 
published by Thomson / West. A special 20th anniversary issue was 
published in 2009, to commemorate the 1989 publication of its 
predecessor, Trial Handbook for New Jersey Lawyers. A retired Brigadier 
General, he served as a member of the New Jersey World War II Memorial 
Commission. In June 2009 he received the highest honor granted by the 
New Jersey State Bar Foundation, its medal of honor for his work in 
establishing the military legal assistance program, and especially in 
his public service representation of soldiers at Walter Reed Army 
Medical Center during their Physician Disability Hearings. His article 
in the June 2007 issue of New Jersey Lawyer Magazine describes the 
program in detail. He has served as special

[[Page 900]]

litigation counsel to the Adjutants General Association of the United 
States and was special litigation counsel pro bono to the National Guard 
Association of the United States. Judge Greenberg was a Commissioner of 
the New Jersey State Commission of Investigation. He also served as 
Assistant Counsel to the Governor of New Jersey and as Commissioner of 
the New Jersey State Scholarship Commission. Professor Greenberg served 
as the first Adjunct Professor of Military Law at the Seton Hall 
University School of Law. He was chosen the New Jersey Lawyer of the 
Year for 2009 by the New Jersey Law Journal. He received the 
Distinguished Alumnus Award from the Johns Hopkins University in 2010, 
and the Rutgers Law School Public Service Award in 2010 for his work in 
developing and leading the efforts to represent wounded and injured 
soldiers at Walter Reed. Judge Greenberg is admitted in New Jersey, New 
York, and the District of Columbia. He is a member of the bar of the 
Supreme Court of the United States, and of the Third, Fourth, and 
Federal Circuits, the Southern District of New York, and the United 
States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces. Judge Greenberg is a 
graduate of the Johns Hopkins University (A.B., 1964) and Rutgers 
University Law School (J.D., 1967). He is married to the former Betty 
Kaufmann Wolf of Pittsburgh. They have three children, Katherine of New 
York, Anthony of Baltimore, and Elizabeth of New York; nominated to the 
United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims by President Barack 
Obama on November 15, 2012, confirmed by the United States Senate on 
December 21, 2012, appointed by the President on December 27, 2012, and 
took the judicial oath on December 28, 2012, for a term of fifteen 
years.

        Officers of the U.S. Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims

    Clerk of the Court.--Gregory O. Block, 501-5970.
    Chief Deputy Clerk Operations Manager.--Anne P. Stygles.
    Counsel to the Clerk.--Cary P. Sklar.
    Senior Staff Attorney (Central Legal Staff).--Cynthia Brandon-
        Arnold.
    Deputy Executive Officer.--Patrick H. Barnwell.
    Librarian.--Allison Fentress.
    
    

